docker-compose/servers/shop/README.md, before:

This is a [Next.js](https://nextjs.org/) project bootstrapped with [`create-next-app`](https://github.com/vercel/next.js/tree/canary/packages/create-next-app).

## Getting Started

First, run the development server:

```bash
npm run dev
# or
yarn dev
```

Open [http://localhost:3000](http://localhost:3000) with your browser to see the result.

You can start editing the page by modifying `pages/index.tsx`. The page auto-updates as you edit the file.

[API routes](https://nextjs.org/docs/api-routes/introduction) can be accessed on [http://localhost:3000/api/hello](http://localhost:3000/api/hello). This endpoint can be edited in `pages/api/hello.ts`.

The `pages/api` directory is mapped to `/api/*`. Files in this directory are treated as [API routes](https://nextjs.org/docs/api-routes/introduction) instead of React pages.

## Learn More

To learn more about Next.js, take a look at the following resources:

- [Next.js Documentation](https://nextjs.org/docs) - learn about Next.js features and API.
- [Learn Next.js](https://nextjs.org/learn) - an interactive Next.js tutorial.

You can check out [the Next.js GitHub repository](https://github.com/vercel/next.js/) - your feedback and contributions are welcome!

## Deploy on Vercel

The easiest way to deploy your Next.js app is to use the [Vercel Platform](https://vercel.com/new?utm_medium=default-template&filter=next.js&utm_source=create-next-app&utm_campaign=create-next-app-readme) from the creators of Next.js.

Check out our [Next.js deployment documentation](https://nextjs.org/docs/deployment) for more details.
# Shop - Privacy Sandcastle

Commit message:

[shop] change default port and up README

docker-compose/servers/shop/README.md, after:

# Shopping Site in Privacy Sandcastle

## Intro

This app is shopping site demo one of "advertiser" party in Privacy Sandcastle world.

## How to Run

You can run this app standalone via.

```sh
$ cd path-to-shop-dir-under-privacy-sandcatle
$ npm install
$ npm run dev
```

Default port for standalone builds are `8080` so you can access it wiht <http://localhost:8080>.

But if app starts via docker-compose, nginx will proxy every request to the apps, so URL will be changes. See the root README.md for more details.

## Architecture

### Building Stacks

- typescript
- next.js
- tailwind
- iron-session

### Basic Architecture

It builds upon basic next.js manner.

- Each pages components are under `./pages` and API endpoints are `./pages/api`
- It's fully SPA but each pages are SSRed.
- Frontend states are managed by `useContext` and updated by `useReducer`.
- Server states (session) are managed by `iron-session`.
  - no session storage on server side, every session are serialized/encrypted in cookie directory.
  - server states will be initialState for react context while SSR.
- Every CSS are styled via tailwind.
- Item information's are encoded in `lib/items.json`, so no databases in this app.
